# Software Development Plan

## Phase 0: Requirements Analysis (tag name `5.0-analyzed`)

Our client - a math education enthusiast - has approached us with an idea to create a fractal visualizer to be used by 
middle and high school students learning about complex numbers. The client has already developed a functioning program
designed for high school students. However, their expertise is not in software development and the existing fractal visualizer
is poorly designed and lacks important functionality. Our task is to first refactor the program without changing any 
existing functionality or adding new functionality. Later, we will add and change appropriate functionality as necessary.

### How the Program Works (Currently)

`main.py` is the program's driver. Its main tasks are to get user input from the command line, validate it, and call the
functions from `mbrot_fractal.py` and `phoenix_fractal.py` that generate the fractal images. A few details about this file:
* Lines 26 - 50 are set up for the rest of the driver (importing modules, declaring constants, etc.)
* Lines 52 - 122 get and validate input
* Lines 155 - 165 call functions from the other modules

When a fractal image associated with a specific module (`mbrot_fractal.py` or `phoenix_fractal.py`) is provided by the user,
the name of the image is passed to one of two main functions. This main function then creates a window and passes this window,
the fractal image name, and a dictionary containing information about each fractal to a function that is responsible for
generating the image of the fractal. The dictionary is parsed to get the information needed for generating the image.
Then, for each pixel in the image (512 x 512), a new function is called to determine what color that pixel should be. After
each pixel is painted, a function responsible for displaying the status bar on how much progress has been made toward displaying
the image is called.

After the fractal image is done printing, the program returns to the main function that was called before. Here, the image
is saved.

### Code Smells

To help us in identifying poor design throughout the source code, we will document "smelly" code via "code smells". We
are looking for the following specific code smells:
1. **Magic numbers:** literal values used in important places without any context or meaning associated with them. Can be fixed by 
using descriptive identifiers.
2. **Global variables:** global variables are those that are created outside any function. This causes great confusion when 
using identifiers of the same name within functions, as the global identifier will not be changed. For this reason, global
variables should be avoided. This does NOT apply to global constants, denoted in all uppercase.
3. **Poorly-named identifiers:** identifiers should be both descriptive and brief. Reserved keywords of the Python
language should not be used as identifiers.
4. **Bad comments:** comments should be brief, descriptive, and only included when necessary. Obsolete comments should be removed.
Large sections of commented code serve no purpose and should be removed.
5. **Too many arguments to a function/method:** functions should not take more than a handful of arguments. Too many is a sign
that some may be unused.
6. **Functions/methods that are too long:** A function that is more than around a dozen lines of code may be tasked with too
many responsibilities. Such functions should be broken down into simpler functions.
7. **Redundant code:** repeated code that has no purpose in being repeated.
8. **Overly complex `if/elif/else` sequence:** some branches of complex decision trees may not be reachable or necessary and may
not function as expected.
9. **Spaghetti code:** confusing code whose purpose is unclear. This code can usually be rewritten to be simpler.
10. **Dead code:** code that exists but is never used. Some examples include:
    * Modules that are imported but never used
    * Variables that are declared but never used
    * Unreachable code due to a return statement or logical test
    * Functions that are defined but never used

Though the above categories will capture most "smelly" code, examples that fall outside of them will be documented and fixed
appropriately.

### Modularizing the Code

Currently, the source code consists of two modules (`src/mbrot_fractal.py` and `src/pheonix_fractal.py`) and a driver
(`src/main.py`). The code can be further separated into modules to improve readability and ease of maintenance. By the end
of this sprint, we need the following six modules:
1. `main.py`
   * The driver. This is the file the user will interact with.
   * Will import all necessary modules to paint an image
   * Will handle command line arguments
2. `FractalInformation.py`
   * Will contain all fractal configuration information
3. `Mandelbrot.py`
   * Contains a function which, when given a coordinate in the complex plane, returns the iteration count of the Mandelbrot function for that point
   * Will not import `Palette.py`
4. `Phoenix.py`
   * Contains a function which, when given a coordinate in the complex plane, returns the iteration count of the Phoenix function for that point
   * Will not import `Palette.py`
5. `Palette.py`
   * Will contain two color palettes
   * The following statements hold true for a color palette named P:
     * When the Mandelbrot or Phoenix fractal function returns an iteration count of a point in the complex plane, the corresponding pixel is painted the color of P[count]
     * The program should never allow count >= len(P)
6. `ImagePainter.py`
   * Creates a `Tk` window and a `PhotoImage` object
   * The `PhotoImage` object stores the pixels of the image
   * Will contain the code to create PNG files
   * This is the only module which that will import `tkinter`

### Unit Tests

Six unit tests have been provided; currently, the program passes all of them. However, some of these tests are trivial and need to be rewritten. Additionally, other
aspects of the program are not covered by these unit tests, so we will need to write at least two more. Some things that
we may want to test include:
* Ensure the color palettes are of the expected length
* Ensure the color palettes contain strings instead of some other type of data
* Ensure that the dictionary of fractal configuration information contains the expected number of fractals
* Ensure that each fractal configuration dictionary contains the expected keys, and that the corresponding values are all of the expected types
* Ensure that the fractal's `count()` functions return `int` instead of other types

### Documentation

For documentation purposes, a UML diagram, a user's manual, and a list of code smells will be created.


## Phase 1: Design (tag name `5.0-designed`)

### FractalInformation.py
This module will contain all the information about each fractal, which can be accessed by other modules as needed. It makes
sense to store the information for both the phoenix fractals and the mandelbrot fractals in a single data structure, so a
dictionary will prove useful here. One important addition to the sub-dictionaries that already exist in the source code will
be a key value pair that identifies what type of fractal the image is, so we know which fractal function to call. This dictionary 
will be declared as a constant so future programmers know not to change it.
```python
FRACTAL_INFO = {
                {"IMAGE_NAME": image info},
                {"IMAGE_NAME" : image info},
                ...
                }
```


### Mandelbrot.py
This module will contain a function that, when given a single point in the complex plain, returns the iteration count of
the Mandelbrot function for that point.
```python
def mandelbrot_color_idx(c, len_palette):
    """
    Given a pixel in the form of a coordinate in the complex plain and the length of a color palette,
    return the index value of the pixel's color
    """
    define z as complex(0,0)
    for each number in range of len_palette:
        get new z # Get z1, z2, ...
        if absolute val of z > 2:

            if iteration number is >= len_palette:
                return len_palette - 1
            return iteration number
```

### Phoenix.py
This module will contain a function that, when given a single point in the complex plain, returns the iteration count of
the Phoenix function for that point.
```python
def phoenix_color_idx(z, number of colors in palette):
    """
    Given a pixel in the form of a coordinate in the complex plain and the length of a color palette,
    return the index value of the pixel's color
    """
    flip the complex coordinate z
    start zPrev at 0+0j
    for each number in range(number of colors in palette):
        save current value of z
        computer new value of z
        save previous value of z for next iteration
        if absolute value of z is > 2:
            return iteration number
    return the final iteration number (if z was never > 2)
    
```

### Palette.py
This module will contain the two color palettes (one for phoenix fractals and one for mandelbrot fractals) to be used in painting the images. Each palette will be a list containing the
necessary colors. When the Mandelbrot or Phoenix fractal function returns an iteration count of a point in the complex plane, 
the corresponding pixel is painted the color `palette[count]`.
```python
MANDELBROT_PALETTE = [color1, color2, ...]
PHOENIX_PALETTE = [color1, color2, ...]
```

### ImagePainter.py
`ImagePainter.py` will import the following modules:
* `Palette.py`
* `Phoenix.py`
* `Mandelbrot.py`

This module will contain a function to create a `Tk` window and a `PhotoImage` object. The function will create the canvas
that the fractal is to be displayed on and pack it to the window.
```python
def create_window(size=512):
    """
    Create a tk window and a PhotoImage object to display the fractal image
    """
    create tk window 
    create PhotoImage object of height=size and width=size
    create canvas of height=size and width=size
    create image on the canvas object
    pack the image to the window
    return the window and the PhotoImage object
```   

A second function will be responsible for rendering the image. This entails iterating over each of the pixels, calculating a 
complex number and passing this result to the mandelbrot or phoenix algorithm. The function will then get the appropriate color
from the correct palette.
```python
def render_image(fractal, window, photoimage):
    """
    Given a fractal's information, a tk window, and a PhotoImage object, render the fractal.
    """
    find the min/max coordinates
    find height and width of pixel on imaginary plane
    
    for each row of pixels in the image:
        create list to store colors of pixels in the row
        for each pixel in the row:
            find value of x in imaginary plane (real number)
            find value of y in imaginary plane (imaginary number)
            
            if the fractal is of mandelbrot type:
                pass (x,y) to mandelbrot algorithm to get palette idx
                add mandelbrot_palette[idx] to list
            if the fractal is of phoenix type:
                pass (x,y) to phoenix algorithm to get palette idx
                add phoenix_palette[idx] to list
                
        create string of pixels
        add pixels to photoimage
        update window to display row of pixels
        
        pass row number to status bar function
    
    call function to save image
    return photoimage
            
    

```


A third function will display the interface's progress bar to the user.
```python
def status_bar(row):
    """
    Display a status bar showing how much of the fractal has been rendered.
    """
    use row number from current iteration in render_image function to determine the proportion of rows displayed
    format proportion as percentage
    create status status bar 
    return status bar

```

Another function will be responsible for saving the image as a `.png` file once it has been created.
```python
def save_image(fractal, PhotoImage):
    """
    Save a fractal image to a .png file
    """
    write PhotoImage object to .png file
```

A final function will act as the point of entry to the module, accepting input from other programs and tying the other 
functions together.
```python
def main(fractal):
    """
    Obtain and pass fractal information to other functions
    """
    call function to create window and photoimage
    call function to render the image
    use tkinter mainloop
```

### main.py
The driver program will need to import the following modules:
* `FractalInformation.py`
* `ImagePainter.py`
* `sys`

The first thing `main.py` must do is get the user input from the command line and validate it. Validation will include:
* making sure the user gave at least two arguments (the file path and the image to be displayed; additional arguments can 
be ignored)
* making sure the fractal argument is in `FractalInformation.py`
```python
if the number of arguments is < 2:
    print usage message
    end the program
elif the second argument is not a supported fractal:
    print usage message
    end the program
```
Note that, as currently written, the fractal images are case-sensitive (i.e., if a user enters "Mandelbrot" instead of 
"mandelbrot", a usage message will appear). This will be changed to provide a more user-friendly experience.

Next, `main.py` must simply pass the specified fractal dictionary to `ImagePainter.py`'s `main()` function; all the logic for deciding what fractal
algorithm and palette to use will be contained in `ImagePainter.py`.


### Unit Tests
A total of 10 unit tests have been designed so far. Note these tests constitute only a first draft of unit tests; others
may still be added and existing tests may be modified to match the final implementation.
* `test_mandelbrot_color_idx`: given a complex number and the length of the mandelbrot color palette, ensures the correct index
is returned.
* `test_status_bar`: given a row number, ensures that the status bar displays the proportion of completed rows correctly
* `test_mandelbrot_palette_length`: tests that the mandelbrot color palette is the expected length
* `test_mandelbrot_color_types`: tests that the mandelbrot color palette contains only strings
* `test_fractal_info_dict_length`: tests that the fractal information dictionary contains the correct number of fractals
* `test_fractal_info_key_names`: tests that all the expected fractal names are present in the fractal information dictionary
* `test_fractal_info_values`: tests that each fractal sub-dictionaries contain the expected information about the fractal
* `test_phoenix_color_idx`: given a complex number and the length of the mandelbrot color palette, ensures the correct index
is returned
* `test_phoenix_palette_length`: tests that the length of the phoenix color palette is as expected
* `test_phoenix_color_types`: tests that the phoenix color palette contains only strings



## Phase 2: Implementation (tag name `5.0-implemented`)
Implementation went smoothly. The following changes were made at implementation:
* The `main()` function in `ImagePainter.py` needs to take both the fractal name and the dictionary containing the fractal
information as arguments because the name of the fractal cannot be accessed via the dictionary. The name itself is required
for the user interface and saving the image.
* The `status_bar()` function now takes an additional `size` argument. This eliminates the need for a magic number and will
allow implementation of different sized status bars in the future.
* The function `mandelbrot_color_idx()` had the ability to return `None` due to the placement of return statements in our design.
A return statement was added in the outermost scope of the function.
* Changes have been made to the unit tests to match the implementation changes above.
* The UML diagram was updated to match the implementation

Though changes were made to the design at implementation, these changes will not affect the user experience in any way, so
a new draft of the user manual has not been created.


## Phase 3: Testing and Debugging (tag name `5.0-tested`)

### Manual Testing

**Input Validation:**
* Too Few Arguments:
  1. From the terminal enter the project directory
  2. Run the following: `$ python src/main.py`
  3. Expected output:
      ```
        Please provide the name of a fractal as an argument
            phoenix
            peacock
            monkey-knife-fight
            shrimp-cocktail
            elephants
            leaf
            mandelbrot
            mandelbrot-zoomed
            seahorse
            spiral0
            spiral1
            starfish
      ```
     This test performed as expected.

  
* Invalid Fractal:
  1. From the terminal enter the project directory
  2. Run the following: `$ python src/main.py INVALID_FRACTAL`
  3. Expected output:
      ```
      ERROR: INVALID_FRACTAL is not a valid fractal
      Please choose one of the following:
          phoenix
          peacock
          monkey-knife-fight
          shrimp-cocktail
          elephants
          leaf
          mandelbrot
          mandelbrot-zoomed
          seahorse
          spiral0
          spiral1
          starfish
        ```
     This test performed as expected.
  

* Ignore extra arguments:
  1. From the terminal enter the project directory
  2. Run the following: `$ python src/main.py phoenix extra args`
  3. Expected output: the program generates the phoenix fractal regardless of extra command line arguments; the test performed
  as expected.


* Case-insensitive Input:
  1. From the terminal enter the project directory
  2. Run the following: `$ python src/main.py ManDelBRot`
  3. Expected output: the program generates the mandelbrot fractal and saves the image as "mandelbrot.png" regardless of
  capitalization; the test performed as expected.


As a part of manual testing, we generated all fractals by hand and compared them to the saved examples generated by the original
source code. We performed these tests to check the following:
* all supported fractals can be generated
* each fractal is saved as a `.png` file to the project directory
* each fractal image is exactly the same as those generated by the original source code
* the UI is consistent across fractals and matches the UI generated by the original source code
* for all fractals, the input is case-insensitive


**Mandelbrot:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py MandelbroT`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff mandelbrot.png doc/examples/mandelbrot.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [ ] The UI matches the UI from the original source code
     * The time taken to complete rendering the image displayed too many digits to the right of the decimal. This was updated
     to display only 3 digits to the right of the decimal as in the original source code.

**Phoenix:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py phOEnix`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff phoenix.png doc/examples/phoenix.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Peacock:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py peacoCK`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff peacock.png doc/examples/peacock.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Monkey-knife-fight:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py Monkey-Knife-Fight`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff monkey-knife-fight.png doc/examples/monkey-knife-fight.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Shrimp-cocktail:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py SHRIMP-cocktail`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff shrimp-cocktail.png doc/examples/shrimp-cocktail.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Elephants:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py elephants`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff elephants.png doc/examples/elephants.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Leaf:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py Leaf`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff leaf.png doc/examples/leaf.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code



**Mandelbrot-zoomed:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py mandelbrot-zoomed`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff mandelbrot-zoomed.png doc/examples/mandelbrot-zoomed.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Seahorse:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py seahORSE`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff seahorse.png doc/examples/seahorse.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code



**Spiral0:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py SPIRAL0`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff spiral0.png doc/examples/spiral0.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Spiral1:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py spiral1`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff spiral1.png doc/examples/spiral1.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


**Starfish:**
1. From the terminal enter the project directory
2. Run the following to generate/save the image: `$ python src/main.py STarFIsh`
3. Run the following to compare the new image to the original: `$ diff starfish.png doc/examples/starfish.png`
   * Note that no output in response to this command indicates no differences were found in the images
4. Checklist:
   * [x] Input is case-insensitive
   * [x] Generated the fractal
   * [x] Saved the fractal as a `.png` file in the project directory
   * [x] The image matches the original
   * [x] The UI matches the UI from the original source code


### Unit Tests
New and existing unit tests (described in Phase 1 of this document) have been reexamined to ensure they match the current implementation. 
From the project directory, run the following commands in the terminal to run unit tests:
* To run all tests: `$ python src/runTests.py`
* To run `src/Testing/testMandelbrot.py`: 
    ```
    $ cd src
    $ python -m unittest Testing/testMandelbrot.py
    ```
* To run `src/Testing/testPhoenix.py`:
    ```
    $ cd src
    $ python -m unittest Testing/testPhoenix.py
    ```

As of this writing, all ten unit tests pass.


## Phase 4: Deployment (tag name `5.0-deployed`)
The repository has been successfully deployed to GitLab!


## Phase 5: Maintenance (tag name `5.0-finished`)

For the most part, the program is well written and easy to understand. The phoenix and mandelbrot algorithms are difficult
to understand by the nature of fractals, but logically they are well written and organized. The program's unit tests and modular
organization should make finding future bugs straightforward.

The documentation is clear and organized. It should make sense to others who are using it.

The modular organization of this program should make adding new features relatively simple. New functions can easily be added
in the appropriate module and called where needed.

No parts of this program are OS or hardware dependent and should continue working regardless of upgrades to these. The program uses
only basic features of Python and should not be affected by future versions.
