# Software Development Plan

## Phase 0: Requirements Analysis (tag name `5.1-analyzed`)
Having refactored the original fractal visualizer, we now turn to the task of designing an object-oriented design for the program.
An object-oriented implementation will make the program even easier to understand and maintain.

Additionally, we will look to add new functionality in the form of new fractal algorithms and the implementation of `.frac`
files containing information about each fractal. This will allow users to create and visualize their own fractals, rather than
choosing from a limited list supported by our program.

### Documentation
The documentation created in the last sprint will be updated to reflect changes made in this sprint. Specifically,
* the UML diagram will be updated to reflect our object-oriented implementation
* the User's Manual will be updated to reflect our new interface. No usage messages will be available with this implementation,
so the manual is a user's only resource.

### Unit Tests
We need at least 8 unit tests to thoroughly test our program. 8 unit tests already exist from the last sprint, but they may need
to be redesigned to match our new implementation.

### Fractal Classes
Our program requires at least four concrete fractal classes, all of which will be derived from a single abstract `Fractal` class.
The purpose to the `Fractal` class is to provide a common structure between all other fractal classes. This abstract class will include
the following:
* A `count()` method, to be implemented in the subclasses. A `NotImplmentedError` will be raised in the event this method is called.
* Any other common member methods between subclasses; there may be none
* Any common data members between subclasses; there may be none

The four concrete subclasses will be the following:
* `Mandelbrot`: this algorithm already exists; it just needs to be implemented as a class.
* `Phoenix`: this algorithm already exists; it just needs to be implemented as a class.
* `Mandelbrot4`: this algorithm is the same as the mandelbrot algorithm, raised to the fourth power
* `Julia`: this algorithm needs to be designed and implemented. Its similarities to the mandelbrot algorithm should make
this straightforward.

Other subclasses may be implemented, time permitting.

### FractalFactory
This part of the program will be implemented as a module containing a function. It will be responsible for creating one of the four fractal subclasses
based on the `.frac` file passed to it via the command line. It will also be capable of constructing a default fractal in
the event that no `.frac` file is provided on the command line. This is the only place in the program that requires 
importing the concrete fractal subclasses.

### FractalParser
The `FractalParser` module will be responsible for parsing `.frac` files given on the command line. The parser will work through
the file, line by line, translating fractal information into a dictionary to be passed to `FractalFactory` where that information
can be used to construct a fractal object. The `FractalParser` will handle any errors found in `.frac` files, including 
invalid/inaccessible files, missing or invalid information, and unrecognized fractal types.

### Palette Classes
At least two concrete palette classes will be derived from a single abstract `Palette` class. The `Palette` super class will
contain a `getColor()` method that, given an iteration count, *n*, returns the color string at the palette object's *n*th 
index.

What is considered a suitable palette will vary depending on the fractal. Specifically, a fractal's iteration count determines
the number of possible colors that may appear in the fractal's image. This iteration count will be used to dynamically generate
color palettes that will provide an optimal color range for the fractal.

In the previous version of this program, the palette type to use was determined by the fractal's type. In this version,
the palette type will be specified by the user on the command line, meaning all fractals need to be compatible with both palette
objects. This also means that a fractal type will not always generate the same image; though its shapes will be the same, colors
can differ between palettes.

### PaletteFactory
This module will be responsible for constructing the palette object specified by the user on the command line. If no palette
is specified, a default palette will be generated. If a nonexistent palette is specified, a `NotImplementedError` will be raised.

### ImagePainter
This module already exists but needs to be redesigned and implemented as a class. Its constructor will take the products of
`FractalFactory`, `PaletteFactory`, and `FractalParser` as input, though the class will never utilize these classes themselves.
`ImagePainter` will take advantage of polymorphism in order to call the correct `count()` method, rather than employing logic
to choose which fractal algorithm to call.

### User Interface
The UI for our object-oriented implementation will differ slightly from the original program. Still run from the command line,
it will appear like the following example:
```
$ python src/main.py [FRACTAL_FILE [PALETTE_NAME]]
```
`FRACTAL_FILE` is the path to the user's choice of `.frac` file. `PALETTE_NAME` is the name of the palette the user wishes to use.

If a user specifies both a `.frac` file and a palette, the UI will display the following:
```commandline
$ python src/main.py data/monkey-knife-fight.frac ColorCube
[100% =================================]
Done in 3.691 seconds!
Wrote image monkey-knife-fight.png
Close the image window to exit the program
```

If a user specifies a `.frac` file but no palette, the following will be displayed:
```commandline
$ python src/main.py data/julia.frac
PaletteFactory: Creating default color palette
[100% =================================]
Done in 2.026 seconds!
Wrote image julia.png
Close the image window to exit the program
```

If user does not specify a `.frac` file nor a palette, the following will be displayed:
```commandline
$ python src/main.py
FractalFactory: Creating default fractal
PaletteFactory: Creating default color palette
[100% =================================]
Done in 1.266 seconds!
Wrote image default.png
Close the image window to exit the program
```

The UI will display errors when appropriate (`FileNotFoundError`, `NotImplementedError`, or `RuntimeError`). A message will
be displayed with the error that will help the user understand how to use the program. For example:
```commandline
$ python src/main.py data/funnel-down.frac NOT_EXIST
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "src/main.py", line 27, in <module>
    palette = PaletteFactory.makePalette(fractal.iterations, gtype=palette)
  File "/home/fadein/cs1440-falor-erik-assn5/src/PaletteFactory.py", line 49, in makePalette
    raise NotImplementedError("Invalid palette requested")
NotImplementedError: Invalid palette requested
```

Because default values are available, the program will not display usage messages containing all the fractals and palettes.
The user will have to refer to the user manual for this information. For this reason, it is important that the user manual
be kept up to date.

### Fractal Configuration Files
Referred to throughout this document as `.frac` files (though they can be any file type), these files contain the information
needed to visualize a particular fractal. Specifcally, `.frac` files contain the following:
* `type` - *str* **required**
  * Indicates which fractal algorithm to apply
* `centerX` - *float* **required**
  * The center point of the image along the X axis.
* `centerY` - *float* **required**
  * The center point of the image along the Y axis
* `axisLength` - *float* **required**
  * Defines the size of the square on the complex plane this image covers.
* `pixels` - *int* **required**
  * The width (and height) of the image in pixels.
* `iterations` - *int* **required**
  * The number of iterations the central for loop runs before giving up on coloring a pixel.
* `creal` and `cimag` - *float* **optional**
  * The real and imaginary components of the C constant which is used by fractals that are variations of the Julia formula
  (in the context of the algorithms discussed in this document, this includes the `Julia` and `Phoenix` type fractals).
  * These items are required only for fractals using a variation of the Julia formula.


## Phase 1: Design (tag name `5.1-designed`)

### Fractal Classes

**`Fractal` Super Class:**

The role of the `Fractal` super class is simple: act as a foundation for the concrete fractal subclasses. It will never
be instantiated as an object, nor contain any data members and so does need a constructor. Its only member method will 
be a `count()` method that will raise a 
`NotImplementedError` when called; this will help us to know if we forget to implement a fractal `count()` method in any of the
subclasses.
```python
class Fractal:
    def count():
        raise NotImplementedError
```

**Fractal Subclasses:**

One subclass will exist for each fractal algorithm (four total). Each will inherit from the `Fractal` super class, meaning
a `count()` method needs to be defined in each. Additionally, each will contain any data members required by that class's
`count()` method. A design for the `Phoenix` class is below; other fractal subclasses will follow a nearly identical design
and have not been included for brevity.
```python
class Phoenix(Fractal):
    def __init__(self, iterations, preal, pimag, creal, cimag):
        """
        Construct Phoenix fractal object
        """
        declare all inputs as private data members
        use preal, pimag and creal, cimag to construct necessary constants

    def count(self, z):
        """
        Given a complex number, return the iteration count at which the number's absolute value exceeds 2.
        Return the final iteration count if this condition is never met.
        """
        flip the complex coordinate z
        start zPrev at 0+0j
        for each number in range(number of colors in palette):
            save current value of z
            compute new value of z
            save previous value of z for next iteration
            if absolute value of z is > 2:
                return iteration number
        return the final iteration number (if z was never > 2)      
```

### FractalFactory
The `FractalFactory` module will get a dictionary as input from the `FractalParser` class. It will use the `type` key and its
associated value to determine which fractal subclass constructor to call. It will then pass all the necessary information
from the dictionary to the constructor.

The module will also define a default fractal dictionary as a constant. This will contain the information for a default fractal
in the event that the user does not specify a fractal configuration file on the command line. This dictionary will then be
passed to the function as a default argument, allowing for a sort of "no-arg" function.
```python
import fractal subclasses

DEFAULT_FRACTAL = {"fractal info here"}

def make_fractal(fractal_info=DEFAULT_FRACTAL):
    """
    Given a fractal information dictionary, construct a fractal object
    """
    check fractal type:
        pass information from dictionary to appropriate fractal subclass constructor
```

### FractalParser
Given a fractal configuration file, the `FractalParser` will create a dictionary of its contents that can be passed to the function
in the `FractalFactory` and `PaletteFactory` modules. The function will implement error checking on the contents of the fractal configuration
file. It will check for the following errors:
* All general keys/values are present
* All keys/values specific to a certain type of fractal are present
* All values can be converted to the appropriate type

Any errors in the configuration file will raise a `RuntimeError` with a descriptive message.
```python
def fractal_parser(frac_file):
    """
    Given a fractal configuration file, return a dictionary containing the important information from this file.
    If errors are encountered in the file, raise a RuntimeError
    """
    open frac_file
    fractal_info = {}
    for each line in frac_file:
        strip white space and newline chars
        if the line is blank, skip it
        if the line contains starts with "#", skip it
        make all text lowercase
        split the line at ":"
        first element from split becomes a key, second element becomes a value in fractal_info
    
    if a generally required key is missing from the dictionary:
        raise RuntimeError

    check the fractal type:
        ensure that keys specific to that type are present
        raise RuntimeError if not

    for the keys that require it, convert values to int or float
        if this fails, raise RuntimeError
    
    find and add the following to fractal_info:
        pixel size
        min: {x, y}
        max: {x, y}
        fractal image name (.png)
    
    close frac_file 
    return fractal_info
```

### Palette Classes

**`Palette` Super Class:**

This class exists only to serve as a foundation for two concrete palette subclasses. Its only member will be a `get_color()`
method. The purpose of this method in the subclasses will be to return a color at a specified index in the palette.
```python
class Palette:
    def get_color():
        raise NotImplementedError
```

**Palette Subclasses:**
Each palette subclass will implement its own `get_color()` method that, given a number returned by a fractal algorithm, returns
the color associated with corresponding palette index.
```python
def get_color(n):
    return palette[n]
```

Each subclass will also contain constructor that, given an iteration count, generates a color palette with at least iteration count
colors. The palette generation will work via the following algorithm:
1. Define a list of base colors. Highly contrasting base colors will be placed next to each other in the list. This list will
be used to generate several small palettes that will later be joined into a single palette.
2. Divide the iteration count by the number of base colors - 1; round the quotient up to the nearest
whole number and call this value `m`. This tells us the minimum number of colors that need to be in each mini palette in order to end with a final 
palette that has the requisite number of colors.
3. Create a `palette` list; iterate through the list of base colors and generate a palette of colors that spans `base_colors[i]`
to `base_colors[i+1]` with `m` colors. Concatenate this mini palette to the main palette.
4. Finally, replace all colors in the palette with their string representations, compatible with the `tkinter` module; return
this final palette.
```python
def __init__(iterations):

    private base_colors = [Color objects]

    m = find number of colors in each mini palette
    private palette = []
    for each color in base_colors:
        palette += mini palette from color1 to color2 with m colors

    palette = [hex representations of color objects in palette]
```

Using this algorithm, multiple palette objects can easily be generated by simply changing the number and order of colors
in the `base_colors` list. Note that this will generate palettes with more colors than iterations; this is fine, as long as there
are at least as many colors as iterations. Also, some colors will be duplicated via this method; this is also fine, as the
palettes will contain enough colors and duplicates will be spread out enough that it should not significantly impact the
appearance of fractals.

### PaletteFactory
The `PaletteFactory` module will, given a `palette_name` (from the command line) and the number of iterations (from the
`FractalParser`), construct the specified palette object. One of the two available palette object names will be 
specified as a default argument, to be constructed if the user does not specify a palette. If a nonexistent palette is 
specified, a `NotImplementedError` is raised.
```python
import fractal subclasses

def palette_factory(palette_name="palette1", iterations):
    """
    Given the name of a palette and an iteration count, construct a palette object
    """
    if palette_name is palette1:
        return palette1 object
    if palette_name is palette2:
        return palette2 object
    if palette_name is not defined:
        raise NotImplementedError
```

### ImagePainter
This module already exists but needs to be converted to a class. The class' constructor will take the products of `PaletteFactory`,
`FractalFractory`, and `FractalParser` to create an object with the necessary data members to visualize a fractal. Additionally,
the `Window` and `PhotoImage` objects will be created and saved as data members in the constructor, as if the constructor is called,
it is obvious that these objects are needed.
```python
def __init__(fractal_object, palette_object, fractal_info):
    private fractal_object
    private fractal_info
    private palette_object

    create and save window object
    create and save photoimage object
```

The following member methods will be defined for the `ImagePainter` class:

**`status_bar()`:**

Needed for the UI, this method will calculate and display how much of the fractal has been rendered to the screen.
```python
def status_bar(row):
    """
    Display a status bar showing how much of the fractal has been rendered.
    """
    use row number from current iteration in render_image function to determine the proportion of rows displayed
    format proportion as percentage
    create status status bar 
    return status bar
```

**`save_image()`:**

This method saves the fractal image as a `.png` file when called. All needed arguments are passed via the `self` reference.
```python
def save_image():
    """
    Save a fractal image to a .png file
    """
    write PhotoImage object to .png file
```

**`render_image()`:**

This method iterates over each pixel in the image and passes the complex (x, y) coordinate to the `count()` method. The result of
this method call is passed to the `Palette` object's `get_color()` method to return the color of that pixel. Each row is then rendered to the screen,
one at a time. 
```python
def render_image():
    """
    Given a fractal's information, a tk window, and a PhotoImage object, render the fractal.
    """
    find the min/max coordinates
    find height and width of pixel on imaginary plane
    
    for each row of pixels in the image:
        create list to store colors of pixels in the row
        for each pixel in the row:
            find value of x in imaginary plane (real number)
            find value of y in imaginary plane (imaginary number)
            
            call fractal object's count() method with complex number (x,y)
            get color at palette index returned by count()
            add color to list
                
        create string of pixels
        add pixels to photoimage
        update window to display row of pixels
        
        pass row number to status bar function
    
    return photoimage
```

### `main.py`
The main module will serve as the entry point to the program, accepting input from the command line and passing it to the appropriate
constructors and functions. Unlike the previous version, this module will not do any error checking, as these tasks have been
assigned to the `PaletteFactory` and `FractalFactory`.
```python
import sys
import FractalFactory
import PaletteFactory
import FractalParser
import ImagePainter

pass file path to FractalParser
pass fractal_info to FractalFactory
pass fractal_info and palette name to PaletteFactory
pass fractal_info, Fractal, and Palette to ImagePainter
```

### Unit Tests
Below are the proposed unit tests for our object-oriented program. This list may change and/or grow as the design is implemented.
* Assert that both palette subclasses produce palettes with at least as many colors as iterations
* Assert that `PaletteFactory` produces the default palette object
* Assert that the `status_bar()` method calculates and displays the status bar correctly
* Assert that `FractalParser` produces the expected dictionary when given a fractal configuration file
* Assert that `FractalParser` raises `RuntimeErrors` with appropriate messages when errors are found in configuration files
* Assert that `PaletteFactory` raises a `NotImplementedError` if a nonexistent palette is specified
* Assert that the `count()` methods in each of the fractal subclasses return the expected integer when given a complex number
* Assert that all palettes contain only strings


## Phase 2: Implementation (tag name `5.1-implemented`)
The following changes to the design were made at implementation:
* Implementation of palette objects as designed resulted in duplication of the beginning/ending colors of the sub-palettes.
Solution is to make sub palettes of size `m+1` and remove the last color in each sub palette (resulting in palettes of the 
original size without duplicated starting/ending colors).
* Rather than passing individual elements of the dictionary to the fractal constructors, we can simply pass the entire dictionary,
store it as a data member, and access its keys/values as needed.
* Added a loop to the palette constructors that removes colors from the end until the palette is the same length as `iterations`.
* Added a `get_fractal_info()` method to all fractal classes that returns the fractal information dictionary. This gives
the program a way to access this dictionary when needed in the event that a fractal configuration file is not specified
(and, therefore, no fractal information dictionary is created by `FractalParser`)
* Added a `main()` method to the `ImagePainter` class. In the original design, we wanted to include this component in `main.py`.
However, it became apparent that this would be easier to implement in the class itself, with only a method call being necessary
in `main.py`. The new `main()` method is nearly identical to that in `ImagePainter.py` of the first version of this program.
* Overloaded the `__len__` method in the palette classes to aid in writing unit tests.
* Added a `get_palette()` method to the palette classes to aid in writing unit tests.

#### Unit Tests
The unit tests we chose to implement differ from those in the design. These implemented unit tests are:
* Ensure the length of Palette objects matches the iterations
* Ensure that the default palette is a palette of the correct type (`PaletteTwo`)
* Ensure that Palette objects only contain strings
* Assert that unsupported palettes raise `NotImplementedError`
* Assert that the `status_bar()` method returns the expected completion bar and percentage given a row number
* Assert that `fractal_factory()` function returns a fractal object with the default properties when no fractal information
dictionary is supplied
* Assert that supplying an unsupported fractal type in a configuration file results in a `RuntimeError`
* Assert that `FractalParser` raises `RuntimeError` when errors are encountered in configuration files (this was implemented
separately from the previous test, as most errors were caught by the fractal parser; our implementation necessitated catching
the fractal type error in `FractalFactory`)
* Given a fractal configuration file, assert that `parse_fractal()` returns the expected dictionary


## Phase 3: Testing and Debugging (tag name `5.1-tested`)
**NOTE:** A small bug has been found in which some of the fractals appear to be displayed slightly off-center (for example, the mandelbrot
fractal is shifted to the left and the julia fractal is shifted downward). We are aware of this bug but, due to time constraints, 
do not have time to search for its cause or fix it. We leave it be addressed in the next sprint.

### Unit Tests
To run all unit tests at once, enter the project directory and run the following command from the terminal: 
`$ python3 src/runTests.py`

To run a single file's unit tests, enter the `src/` directory and run the following command: `$ python -m unittest Testing/UNIT_TEST.py`
* `UNITTEST.py` is the unit test file you want to run. Existing unit test files are:
  * `testFractalFactory.py`
  * `testFractalParser.py`
  * `testImagePainter.py`
  * `testPalettes.py`

As of this writing, all unit tests described in Phase 2 of this document pass.

### Manual Tests

#### Default Palette
Test that, when no palette is specified at the command line, the program generates fractals using a palette of type `PaletteTwo`.
When running this test, we are looking for the following:
* The specified fractal is rendered successfully
* The color of the fractal is consistent with PaletteTwo (should contain lots of blues, greens, and yellows)
* The interface indicates the default palette is being used
* The image is saved to the project directory as a `.png` file

Commands (run in the terminal from the project directory):
* `python3 src/main.py data/mandel-pow4.frac`
* `python3 src/main.py data/feathers.frac`
* `python3 src/main.py data/wholly-squid.frac`
* `python3 src/main.py data/julia-1.1301.frac`

As of this writing, these four commands satisfied the requirements of the default palette test with no apparent bugs.


#### Default Palette + Default Fractal
Test that both the default palette (`PaletteTwo`) and the default fractal configuration file (`unconnected.frac`) are created
when no palette or fractal configuration file are specified. When running this test, we are looking for the following:
* The default fractal is rendered successfully with the correct palette (should contain lots of blues, greens, and yellows)
* The interface indicates the default fractal is being used
* The interface indicates the default palette is being used
* The image is saved to the project directory as a `.png` file

Commands (run in the terminal from the project directory):
* `python3 src/main.py`

As of this writing, the command satisfied the test requirements with no apparent bugs (note that this is the only command that
can be used for this test).


#### Specifying Palette
Test that fractals utilizing both palette types can be generated when they are specified. When running these tests, we are
looking for the following:
* The specified fractal is generated with the specified palette
* No default messages are displayed on the interface
* The `PALETTE_NAME` argument at the command line is case-insensitive
* The image is saved to the project directory as a `.png` file

Commands (run in the terminal from the project directory):
* `python3 src/main.py data/fjords.frac PaletteOne`
* `python3 src/main.py data/oriental-dragons.frac PALETTEone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/hourglass.frac PAleTTeonE`
* `python3 src/main.py data/fjords.frac PALETTETWO`
* `python3 src/main.py data/oriental-dragons.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/hourglass.frac PAleTTeTWO`

As of this writing, the commands satisfied the test requirements with no apparent bugs.

#### FractalParser Stress Tests
These tests were conducted to ensure that the `FractalParser` is robust and that it raises `RuntimeError` when appropriate.
Currently, there are unit tests that perform a similar function. These tests pass, indicating the parser has met a good baseline.
The following manual tests will push the parser further and ensure that it is as robust as possible.

Each of the below tests involve a single change to the configuration file `data/phoenix.frac`. Here is the file in its original
(and correct) state:
```
# Phoenix Fractal by Brock

type: phoenix
preal: -0.5
pimag: 0.0
# c value taken from http://usefuljs.net/fractals/docs/julia_mandelbrot.html, "Connected and Unconnected Sets"
creal: 0.5667
cimag: 0.0
centerx: 0
centery: 0
axislength: 3.25
pixels: 512
iterations: 101
```

Each test will only change one line at a time in order to isolate the changes and how the program handles them. The change
to the file will be included for each test. Each test will use the following command: `python3 src/main.py data/phoenix.frac`.
The resulting message or behavior will be included. An optional label "bugs" will only be added if the test's result was
not as expected.

1. Missing Multiple Keys:
   * change: remove "iterations", "pixels", and "axislenght" keys
   * result: `RuntimeError: The required parameter of 'axislength' is missing`
2. Many Spaces Before, After, and Between Keys and Values:
   * change: `          creal:                     0.5667              `
   * result: phoenix fractal generated as expected
3. Missing Key/Value Delimiter (":"):
   * change: `typephoenix`
   * result: `RuntimeError: The required parameter of 'type' is missing`
4. Missing Multiple Values:
   * change: remove values from "creal", "cimag", "preal", and "pimag" keys
   * result: `RuntimeError: Value for the 'preal' parameter is missing`
5. Missing Required Key for Phoenix Fractal:
   * change: remove "preal" key and value
   * result: `RuntimeError: This is a Phoenix fractal, but the 'preal' parameter is missing`
6. Comment Out a Required Key
   * change: `#centerx: 0`
   * result: `RuntimeError: The required parameter of 'centerx' is missing`
7. Case-Insensitive Keys
   * change: `ITERatiOnS: 101`
   * result: phoenix fractal generated as expected
8. Repeated Keys are Overwritten
   * change: add several "type" keys with values that would produce errors, but overwrite them with a final valid type
   * result: phoenix fractal generated as expected
9. Invalid Fractal Type
   * change: `type: INVALID`
   * result: `RuntimeError: The invalid fractal type 'invalid' was specified in the fractal configuration file`
10. Case-Insensitive Values
   * change: `type: PHOeniX`
   * result: phoenix fractal generated as expected

#### General Fractal Generation
This test serves to simply ensure that the program can generate all the fractals it is supposed to (though not all of them
are tested here). If any unexpected behavior is observed, it will be noted along with the command that caused it.

Commands (run in the terminal, from the project directory):
* `python3 src/main.py data/8-points.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/branches@0064.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/branches@1024.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/coral.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/enhance.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/rabbit-hole.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/spiral-jetty.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/spiral1@1024.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/tip4.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/feathers.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/shrimp-cocktail.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/julia.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/julia-1.1301.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/lace-curtains.frac palettetwo`
* `python3 src/main.py data/x-marks-the-spot.frac paletteone`
* `python3 src/main.py data/mandel-pow4.frac paletteone`


## Phase 4: Deployment (tag name `5.1-deployed`)
The project has been deployed to GitLab!


## Phase 5: Maintenance
The function in `FractalParser.py` is extremely long. This makes it somewhat difficult to understand, though its progression
is very linear and uncomplicated, as an upside. Finding a bug in this part of the program could be challenging since it is
not broken up into separate functions. Other areas that could prove challenging with bugs is anywhere where tedious/small
calculations are being made. Because we do not fully understand the math behind all of this, it is possible for calculations
to be slightly off, and it would take considerable time and effort to find.

The documentation is clear and straightforward; it should make sense to others and ourselves down the road.

The program is object-oriented, making the addition of new features simple. Simply add a new class or method to manipulate
interface and create new fractals and palettes.

This program is not hardware or OS dependent and should continue to work regardless of updates to these components. The program
does make use of some modules that could cause issues as Python is updated. However, the program generally uses basic language
features that should not change with new versions of the language.
